---
title: 'Land Use Change'
header_menu: true
weight: 4
---
For the first time in over 150 years, the forest cover of New England has recently begun to shrink, driven largely by urban growth (Jeon et al. 2014). In Vermont, continued urban sprawl, particularly in the bee-rich areas of western Chittenden County, is likely to be a major threat at both the local and regional scale. One such example noted during the duration of this project -  a sandy, vacant field in Williston with a number of uncommon bees was replaced by a self-storage facility where the remaining ground is now a mix of pavement and turf grass. Similar sites around the state are being targeted for development, including for solar fields, which are often seeded with non-native grasses and mowed frequently. 

Though the total acreage of farmland in VT is Agricultural intensification is a global conservation issue, with economic forces driving the consolidation and mechanization of agriculture, which generally reduces the biological diversity of farmland. An obvious example in Vermont is the dairy industry, the landscape was once dominated by small farms, many of which had much of their acreage in pasture. This pasture and fallow areas around the barns likely had an abundance of thistle, burdock, brambles, and other flowering plants that were prime habitat for a number of uncommon, native bees. The larger dairy operations that dominate today are dependent on acres of corn and hay, both of which are often cultivated from edge to edge and largely devoid of bees. 

<p style="font-size: 10pt; text-align: right; margin-right: 3%"><a href="https://vtecostudies.github.io/SoBees_LandingPage/">Home</a> | <a href="https://vtecostudies.github.io/SoBees_Current_Knowledge/">Current Knowledge</a> | <a href="https://vtecostudies.github.io/SoBees_Conservation/">Conservation</a> | <a href="https://vtecostudies.github.io/SoBees_Next_Steps/">Next Steps</a></p>